Add use case for lowest memory consumption [8912] (#177)
eProsima/Fast-RTPS-docs: docs/fastdds/use_cases/reduce_memory/reduce_memory.rst

.. include:: ../../../03-exports/aliases.include
.. include:: ../../../03-exports/aliases-api.include

.. _use-case-reduce-memory:

Reduce memory usage
===================

A great number of modern systems have tight constraints over available memory, making the reduction of memory usage to a
minimum critical. Reducing memory consumption of a *Fast DDS* application can be achieved through a different number of
approaches, mainly through architectural restructuring of the application, but also via limiting the resources the
middleware utilizes, and by avoiding static allocations.

.. |max_samples| replace:: |ResourceLimitsQosPolicy::max_samples-api|
.. |max_instances| replace:: |ResourceLimitsQosPolicy::max_instances-api|
.. |max_samples_per_instance| replace:: |ResourceLimitsQosPolicy::max_samples_per_instance-api|
.. |allocated_samples| replace:: |ResourceLimitsQosPolicy::allocated_samples-api|
.. |depth| replace:: |HistoryQosPolicy::depth-api|

> 

Reviewer: As @EduPonz suggests, QoS should be briefly explained here.
Check this again: https://github.com/eProsima/Fast-RTPS-docs/pull/177#discussion_r459352698

.. include:: ../../../03-exports/aliases.include
.. include:: ../../../03-exports/aliases-api.include

.. _use-case-reduce-memory:

> Reduce memory usage
> ==========================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reduce memory usage
===================
```

|    :language: c++                                      |
|    :start-after: //CONF-MEMORY-QOS-ENDPOINTS           |
|    :end-before: //!--                                  |
|    :dedent: 8                                          |
+--------------------------------------------------------+
| **XML**                                                |
+--------------------------------------------------------+
| .. literalinclude:: /../code/XMLTester.xml             |
|    :language: xml                                      |
|    :start-after: <!-->CONF-MEMORY-QOS-ENDPOINTS        |
|    :end-before: <!--><-->                              |
|    :lines: 2-3,5-                                      |
|    :append: </profiles>                                |
+--------------------------------------------------------+

.. note::
    Memory allocation modes have different names for XML config files and C++ source code.

    +--------------------------------------+----------------------------+
    |C++                                   | XML                        |
    +======================================+============================+

>     |PREALLOCATED_MEMORY_MODE              | PREALLOCATED               |

Reviewer: Use links to the API Reference, e.g. |PREALLOCATED_MEMORY_MODE-api|

.. include:: ../../../03-exports/aliases.include
.. include:: ../../../03-exports/aliases-api.include

> .. _use-case-reduceMemory:

Reviewer 2: Propagate
```suggestion
.. _use-case-reduce-memory:
```

> Reduce the usage of memory

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Reduce memory usage
```

> ==========================

Reviewer 2: Adjust length to new title

> A great number of modern systems have tight constraints over available memory. Reducing the memory usage is critical for

Reviewer 2: In general, please beak lines after periods. That way, future reviews will imply less modified lines, thus easing the reviews. RST build paragraphs it the sentences are only one line apart.

> A great number of modern systems have tight constraints over available memory. Reducing the memory usage is critical for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A great number of modern systems have tight constraints over available memory, making the reduction of memory usage to a minimum critical.
```

> these applications. Reducing memory consumption of a Fast-DDS application can be achieved through a different number of

Reviewer 2: Product name in italics + always *Fast DDS*
```suggestion
these applications. Reducing memory consumption of a *Fast DDS* application can be achieved through a different number of
```

> approaches, mainly through architectural restructuring, but also via the limiting of resources and by avoiding static

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
approaches, mainly through architectural restructuring of the application, but also via limiting the resources the middleware utilizes, and by avoiding static
```

allocations.

If a system has a low memory limit it is recommended to limit the maximum resources of the application to ensure that it
will run properly. To lower the usage during runtime, allocations can be set dynamically to ensure the lowest amount of

> memory is always in use.

Reviewer 2: I think this is the same info as the previous paragraph with a different formulation

QoS Adjustments
---------------

> 

Reviewer 2: Avoid two title with no text. https://github.com/eProsima/all-docs/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#text-structure point 7

ResourceLimitsQosPolicy
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Limit the resources to the application's needs. The lowest it can be reduced to is one sample per |DataWriter-api| and

Reviewer 2: I think we should explain here what this QoS does, and link to its sections in the docs. I think it's important to state what parameters are to be modified and why

|DataReader-api|.

.. warning::

   The value of |ResourceLimitsQosPolicy::max_samples-api| must be higher or equal to the value of
   |ResourceLimitsQosPolicy::max_samples_per_instance-api|.

   The value established for the :ref:`historyqospolicy` |HistoryQosPolicy::depth-api| must be lower or equal to the

>    value stated for |ResourceLimitsQosPolicy::max_samples_per_instance-api|.

Reviewer 2: I'd put this as 2 bullet points, else the rendering is kinda ugly

+--------------------------------------------------------+
| **C++**                                                |
+--------------------------------------------------------+
| .. literalinclude:: /../code/DDSCodeTester.cpp         |
|    :language: c++                                      |
|    :start-after: //CONF-MEMORY-QOS-PUBSUB              |
|    :end-before: //!--                                  |
|    :dedent: 8                                          |
+--------------------------------------------------------+
| **XML**                                                |
+--------------------------------------------------------+
| .. literalinclude:: /../code/XMLTester.xml             |
|    :language: xml                                      |
|    :start-after: <!-->CONF-MEMORY-QOS-PUBSUB           |
|    :end-before: <!--><-->                              |
|    :lines: 2-3,5-                                      |
|    :append: </profiles>                                |
+--------------------------------------------------------+

Set Dynamic Allocation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> 

Reviewer 2: I think it's worth mentioning what's the default Fast DDS behaviour and why it is like that. That way, the reader can better understand what does changing the memory policy entails.

> Using the dynamic settings of the :ref:`rtpsendpointqos` will prevent unecessery allocations. Lowest footprint is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using the dynamic settings of the :ref:`rtpsendpointqos` will prevent unnecessary allocations. Lowest footprint is
```

achieved with |DYNAMIC_RESERVE_MEMORY_MODE-api| at the cost of higher allocation counts, for higher determinism at a

> small memory cost the |DYNAMIC_REUSABLE_MEMORY_MODE-api| option is available.

Reviewer 2: I think we could clarify the difference between the two. Keep in mind that normal use-case readers probably have not read any section of the docs and came directly here to use the snippets they need. The use-case should explain what they need and also link to the appropriate sections

+--------------------------------------------------------+
| **C++**                                                |
+--------------------------------------------------------+
| .. literalinclude:: /../code/DDSCodeTester.cpp         |
|    :language: c++                                      |
|    :start-after: //CONF-MEMORY-QOS-ENDPOINTS           |
|    :end-before: //!--                                  |
|    :dedent: 8                                          |
+--------------------------------------------------------+
| **XML**                                                |
+--------------------------------------------------------+
| .. literalinclude:: /../code/XMLTester.xml             |
|    :language: xml                                      |
|    :start-after: <!-->CONF-MEMORY-QOS-ENDPOINTS        |
|    :end-before: <!--><-->                              |
|    :lines: 2-3,5-                                      |
|    :append: </profiles>                                |
+--------------------------------------------------------+

> .. note::

Reviewer 2: I think we can delete this note in favor of #178
